
# General Connectivity Notes

The playbooks assume that it's possible to connect to each node using 'ssh'.

What this means is that you need to configure your '~/.sshconfig' to allow
access to each node.  In some cases you may require a slightly different setup
when first configuring the node, vs after the first configuration.  This will
happen when the node is remotely accessible.  

## Raspberry Pi nodes for Remote Sites

Typically these will be setup initially on a local area network, and then
maintained using remote access through one of the gateways, or "phone-home"
servers.  As such, the initial entry in "~/.ssh/config" will look something
like:

    # Access locally
    Host barcpi003
    HostName 192.168.0.10
    user pi

Then, when the node is installed remotely, and we want to go through the gateway,
we comment out the above entry and put in something like:

    # For remote access
    Host barcpi003
    HostName remote.stratuscom.com
    Port 14439
    user pi

If you're an authorized administrator for the BARC infrastructure, your public
key will be in the set of public keys that are uploaded to the
remotely-accessible machines, and you should be good to go.  If you need to
use a different key file, or "identity" for "ssh", you can add the "Identity"
attribute to the config file, e.g. for initial setup of the gateway using the
key generated by EC2:

    Host barc-gateway
    Hostname gateway.barc.ca
    IdentityFile ~/certs/barc-gateway-key.pem
    user ec2-user

# Setting up a new Raspberry Pi Node

The following instructions describe the steps to setting up a new Raspberry Pi
node for the digipeater.  This can be done on an SD card image, which can then
be installed at the repeater shack.

1. Download and burn an image of
[Raspbian Jessie Lite] (https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/)
according to the instructions on that page.  

2. Boot the pi using the new image.  

3. Use 'sudo raspi-config' to set the following items:  
  ssh: on  
  hostname: as required (for the rest of this doc, we'll call it 'barcpi003')

4. Reboot the pi, so the new hostname is activated.  Make sure the pi is on the
local network.  

5. Use 'ifconfig' to find out the pi's IP address.

6. Make an entry into the local '/etc/hosts' for the hostname and ip address, or
make an entry in "~/.ssh/config" as described above.

7. Test the ssh connection.

7. On the new pi, create a new ssh key

    ssh-keygen -b 2048 -t rsa

8. ssh into the pi and copy your public key to its 'authorized_keys' file under
the 'pi' user, as follows:

    cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | ssh pi@barcpi003 "cat >>~/.ssh/authorized_keys"  

8. Add the new host to the 'hosts' file and also add a 'host_vars' file for the
new host.

9. Setup the remote access and 'phone-home' service:

    ansible-playbook -i hosts -l barcpi003 remote-access.yml

10. If the new node needs aprx, run the 'install-aprx' playbook.

    ansible-playbook -i hosts -l barcpi003 install-aprx.yml

11. Run the site playbook to configure the new node for the rest of the infrastructure.

    ansible-playbook -i hosts -l barcpi003 site.yml


# Setting up the EC2 Gateway
